Minor edits (#30)
petrelharp/num_edges: paper/writeup.tex

used a heuristic algorithm to produce ``plausible'' ARGs
(i.e., those that explained the data with few mutations and recombinations),
and searched for associations with traits in the resulting ensemble of ARGs.
(See \citet{wong2024general} for more historical discussion.)
Our approach for extending haplotypes follows the same logic,
that an ARG with fewer recombination events is more parsimonious,
and thus more likely.
For this reason, it will occasionally be wrong even if the trees are correct,
although in practice this source of error is likely much smaller than error in tree inference itself.

\paragraph{IBD in ARGs}
The term ``identity by descent'' (IBD) is used to mean many different (but related) things,
and length distributions of shared IBD segments can be used for inference of recent demographic history

> \citep[for instance,][]{alasadi2018estimating,ringbauer2017inferring,browning2015accurate}.

Reviewer: We should probably cite the other definitions of ARG IBD also, like e.g.
```
One definition of IBD in the ARG context is to consider how the most recent common ancestor of two nodes changes along the genome~\citep{carmi2016registering,huang2024estimating}. Another commonly used...
```

- Rapidly registering identity-by-descent across ancestral recombination graphs. Journal of Computational Biology. 2016;23(6):495–507.
- Estimating evolutionary and demographic parameters via  ARG-derived IBD (accepted in PLOS genetics). https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.03.07.583855v2.full

> \citep[for instance,][]{alasadi2018estimating,ringbauer2017inferring,browning2015accurate}.

Reviewer: Could also cite [this paper](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-023-06831-w) as a recent application of IBD

A commonly-used definition in the context of a given ARG says that
the two genomes share an IBD segment if each has inherited the segment from their common ancestor
along a single path \citep{ralph2013geography}.
Largely for computational reasons, this is the definition that is used in \tskit's
IBD-finding methods 

> (by G.~Tsambos \citet{tskit}; see also \citet{tsambos2023link}).

Author: I was hoping so, but the link-ancestors paper does not mention IBD calculation; in fact the phrase "IBD" does not appear anywhere in the paper. I wanted to cite Georgia's paper *in prep*, but I don't think that's allowed these days?

> (by G.~Tsambos \citet{tskit}; see also \citet{tsambos2023link}).

Reviewer: Fair enough, let's leave it as you have it so.

However, many simulation and inference methods produce ARGs
as shown in \figref[A\&B]{fig:conceptual},
in which inheritance of a single segment is represented by more than one edge.
This means that the \texttt{ibd\_segments} method of \tskit{} will return shorter segments than it ought to.

> However, applying our method of extending haplotypes

Author: I'm trying to say something a lot more precise than that - see below? Basically: `ibd_segments` *does not* actually compute the IBD segments (in the path sense) implied by a given tree sequence, because of this issue that the tree sequence might represent inheritance of a single chunk of genome by multiple edges. However, `extend_haplotypes` makes this better. (And, I think it makes it basically all the way better.)

I'm also not too bothered if reviewers ask to see this - we talked about doing it, and it'd be easy, but we ran out of time.

> However, applying our method of extending haplotypes
> will remove this issue, and so should make returned IBD segments
> more closely match those predicted by theory.

Author: ```suggestion
However, as we have shown above,
our method of extending haplotypes will modify the tree sequence
so that the inherited segment is represented by a single edge
(as in \figref[C\&D]{fig:conceptual}).
So, if our method (\texttt{extend_haplotypes}) is applied before finding IBD segments
(with  \texttt{ibd\_segments}),
then the resulting segments should much more accurately represent
the IBD segments (in the ``path'' sense used here) implied by the tree sequence.
(Whether the resulting segments better match those predicted by theory depends
also on the quality of tree inference.)
```

Reviewer 2: This reads clearly to me.

Reviewer: That looks good to me.
